Problem statement:
•	There is a huge mismanagement in collecting garbage from public dustbins in many area of India.
        The garbage is going to be lying in already full dustbins and will eventually end up burning by the locals.
•	Incinerating garbage emits harmful gases,bad odor and dust (particulate matter), which contribute to global warming and damage lakes, forests, oceans, and towns half a world away from their source. 
•	Urban India generates 62 million tonnes of waste (MSW) annually, and it has been predicted that this will reach 165 million tonnes in 2030.
        43 million tonnes of municipal solid waste is collected annually, out of which 31 million is dumped in landfill sites and just 11.9 million is treated. 
•	There are just not enough public bins, and the ones that are accessible aren't even covered, so rubbish frequently overflows and ends up all over the streets.
        In many situations, waste collecting vehicles are not even covered, resulting in trash on the streets. In India, many citizens litter the streets as well.
•	Overflowing garbage bins and suggest how modern technology could ease the problems by increasing the efficiency of waste collections and informing the waste handlers before the bins overflow.
1.	Bacteria, insects and vermin thrive from garbage
2.	Overflowing waste causes air pollution and respiratory diseases
3.	Garbage contaminates surface waters, which affects all ecosystems
4.	Direct handling of overflowing waste exposes for health risks
5.	Inefficient waste control is bad for municipal wellbeing
  As a believer of technology, we would like to solve this problem of waste management and disposal using a smart dustbin built with modern and technologies.


Requirements :
Hardware required:
1.Arduino Uno R3
2.HC-SR04 Ultrasonic sensor
3.D1286464 Rsi 16X2 Display
4.SIM900a GSM module
5.li-ion battery

Software required:
to program arduino board we only need Arduino open source compiler.

Technologies used:
1.SONAR (Sound Navigation and Ranging) 
2.GSM technology
3.GPS (Global Positioning System)
4.Solar energy


Project Description:
When the dustbin is empty is shows 0% filled.
The ultrasonic sensor constantly keep an eye on the level of the garbage in the dustbin
and shows constantly how many percentage the dustbin is filled.
when the level of garbage reachs above 90% i.e. the dustbin is about to be full 
the dustbin automatically send a message saying "Smart Dustbin no. 00xx is full,
please collect garbage" along with a link of google maps containing exact location 
of the dustbin. 
The message is send to the person responsible to collect garbage 
from that locality.
The dustbin also calls the same person , an automated voice tells the person to
collect the garbage and also mentions the location of the dustbin.
While the dustbin is not emptied , it shows "OUT OF SERVICE".
Now if the dustbin is not emptied in the specific time given for the task, says 24 hours
then the dustbin automatically send a complaint of the person on duty to collect garbage
to the nagar nigam office.This feature is crucial for making sure the whole system is
working optimally.


Scope:
Market scope is huge as  Thousands of Smart dustbins are needed.
No similar solutions exist.
It’s a fairly unique approach.
Proposing this idea to the Government is way to go.
It is scalable in the market dependencies.
Its going to be in demand for long time ahead so it is sustainable.
The government can buy the dustbins directly , thus generating revenue while it is a MVP.


Challenges faced:
The biggest challenge was integrating all the existing technologies to make them work
together and as expected. Many errors arouse during the development of the project, but 
they were one way or other rectified.
Some problems occured during the testing phase which were solved too.

Conclusion:
If Smart dustbin is used on a big scale it can help solve not only waste management 
problems but also environment problems.
by result of which we  would not face public dustbin overflow issues ever.
Our Smart dustbin also prevents hazardous fumes and carcinogenic diseases to affect 
public in urban environment.
